
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
mkedata
=======

Are you an R user with a professional or recreational interest in Milwaukee public data?

**mkedata** takes care of much of the grunt work of acquiring and processing Milwaukee data. This puts you much closer to doing what you most care about: ***analyzing and visualizing Milwaukee data***.

Overview
--------

**mkedata** is a simple package that provides a ready source for some popular public datasets generated by the City of Milwaukee. Datasets have been processed and aggregated from their original versions to make them ready for use. It also provides several functions for the retrieval and processing of updated data from the City of Milwaukee.

This package currently focuses on crime, property, and spatial data relating to the City of Milwaukee.

Datasets relevent to the City of Milwaukee, Wisconsin:
- Master Address Index (mai\_04042016 dataset -- acquired using get\_mai 04/04/2016)
- Master Property (MPROP) database mprop\_12192016 dataset -- acquired using get\_mprop 012/19/2016) - Parcelbase registry of individual city parcels (parcels dataset -- acquired using get\_parcels 12/19/2016)
- Raw crime indicents data (raw\_wibrs\_2005thru2015 dataset -- last updated 04/13/2016)
- Processed and geocoded crime incidents (crimes.munged dataset -- last updated 05/13/2016)

Utility functions for data retrieval and processing:
- get\_wibrs (DEBUG)
- append\_wibrs
- munge\_wibrs
- get\_parcelbase
- get\_mprop - full\_geocode
- MAIgeocoder

Installation
------------

To install the development version from GitHub:

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("MatthewSchumwinger/mkedata", build_vignettes = TRUE)
```

To see examples of these features in use, please view the '**overview**' vignette.

``` r
vignette(package = "mkedata")
```

Is this meaningful to you?
--------------------------

Great! This package is for you. *(No, really. There aren't that many R-users interesed in Milwaukee public data, so this actually may be just for you.)*

**mkedata** was first developed by Matt Schumwinger to support the Milwaukee projects of [Big Lake Data, llc](www.biglakedata.com). If you find it helpful, let Matt know: <info@biglakedata.com>

Better yet, help the open data community in Milwaukee by contributing to the package. Pull requests welcome!
